https://www.reichertforgovernor.com/issues/

Housing Affordability. Our housing costs are now the sixth highest in the
country as home ownership is less affordable and available. Streamline zoning
laws, speed up permitting, and use tax credits to incentivize rent relief
Require or incentivize developers to include a certain percentage of affordable
housing in new developments.

Address Rising Food Prices. With the fourth highest food prices in America,
we must do more for everyone who is struggling to put food on the table. We
start by reducing the cost of transportation, driven by rising fuel prices that
inevitably get passed along to the consumer.

Productive Government Spending. More effectively fund priorities,
eliminate waste, and help reduce the financial burdens on everyone.
Transparency and Accountability. We deserve to know where government
is working and where it's not. To do that, we will audit all state government
programs, and share information directly with the public.
Tax Relief. Lower property taxes and reduce or completely eliminate the
carbon tax, allow for the opt-out of the long-term care tax, and empower
people to make the call on any new tax.

Childcare Affordability. Pass stalled legislation that would make childcare
more affordable with tax credits or subsidies. If we care for our children in the
classroom, why would we not continue the effort after the bell rings?
A Business-friendly Government. Repeal unnecessary regulations that
increase business costs, restrict supply, and sends a message that government
always knows best. Small businesses create more jobs than government, and
always will.

Reverse the Energy Ban. The new law mandating the transition to a natural
gas-less state will punish every business, every family, and every consumer.
Healthcare Costs. Address high healthcare costs, promote competition,
reduce regulatory burdens, and allow Washingtonians the ability to opt-out of
the long-term care tax that many may never use. 

Direct the State Patrol Chief to enforce the law; breaking the law must have
consequences. From assaults and carjackings to retail theft and smash and grabs,
people are getting hurt.

Recruit qualified officers. Protect law enforcement officers acting in good faith.
Ensure qualified immunity laws are protected. The law should reflect a “reasonable
officer” standard not a “reasonable person” standard when force is used. Law
enforcement must be held accountable, but also protected with the same due
process as all citizens.

Identify, arrest and prosecute cartels, gangs trafficking in fentanyl. Use
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program funds for drug
task forces.

Prioritize all efforts to combat domestic violence and human trafficking.
Strengthen partnerships between social services and law enforcement.
Overhaul the parole board system. Stop easy parole for hardened criminals who
committed unspeakable crimes.

Fight the epidemic of juvenile crime. Juveniles committing murder, rape,
kidnapping, carjacking, and robbery threaten everyone. Keep the Juvenile Justice
Center open for violent offenders because there must be consequences. Allow law
enforcement to question juveniles. Work with community organizations to educate
and bolster diversion programs, provide job training opportunities, and family
assistance to prevent juvenile crime.

Employ latest technology. This includes rapid DNA, pursuit, and at home
bookings of suspects arrested for minor crimes.

Hire more corrections officers and keep existing jails open.
Identify & fully fund alternative programs showing results in lowering recidivism.

Work to allow local law enforcement to coordinate with federal authorities.
Combat illegal alien-related crime, human trafficking and drug trafficking. Send
illegal aliens that commit crimes back to their home country unless they
committed a serious offense in Washington State that must be prosecuted.

Renew public trust with community engagement and policing.
Use new techniques and technology to help law enforcement forge partnerships with communities they serve

Appoint the State's first Director for the Homeless. For a Governor to
make meaningful change, it requires a direct report, so they are able
to take direct action.

Increase efforts to arrest the 2-3% of the homeless who are committing
serious felonies. The State must hold all those who break the law
accountable. Everyone.

Redirect 30% of state funding to housing-linked treatment programs.
The State needs BOTH housing and treatment to effectively address
and reduce homelessness.

Audit all state-funded programs and eliminate ineffective ones. Local
governments are spending record amounts more on services, yet the
homeless population continues to grow at an alarming rate.

Implement a database management system with accessible real-time
data to establish transparency and accountability. Current reporting,
much of it either dated or inaccurate, is driving decisions on what's
working and what's not.

Advocate for a federally-funded pilot program in Seattle and Spokane
integrating housing, treatment, and informed trauma care. Federal
involvement gives the State of Washington an additional funding source,
and a fresh path to overcoming homelessness.

Mobilize other states to advocate for federal funding that covers
housing, treatment, and informed trauma care. An alliance will help
shape best practices across states while creating a nationwide model
that works.

Eliminate "safe injection" sites in Washington State. These sites are
anything but safe, as almost all prevailing evidence shows it exacerbates
local crime and doesn't help users kick their habit.

Promote and expand results-driven public/private partnerships.
This is a cause that requires an "all-in" approach to remedy.

Washington has become a haven for crime, drugs, homelessness, human trafficking, and other serious problems. In fact, the latest Washington State crime report detailed how murders and armed robberies are up, car jackings are up, and domestic violence continues to rise.

Yet somehow, government’s response has been to claim one of the worst distinctions in America: the lowest number of law enforcement officers per thousand residents in the nation. I’ve spent my entire career protecting people, standing up for people, and putting my life on the line for people.

As a detective and then as Sheriff, I was fortunate to lead an outstanding investigative team that worked tirelessly to capture and apprehend the “Green River Killer” – the second most notorious serial killer in U.S. history.

In Congress, I helped champion the bipartisan “Blue Alert” bill that was signed into law to create a national alert system to make officers aware of threats against them as quickly as possible. I also co-sponsored the “Thin Blue Line Act” to crack down on cop killers by making the murder or attempted murder of a police officer an “aggravating” factor in death penalty determinations.

As Governor, I will use my experience on the street and in the trenches to change this lawlessness and make you and your family feel safe again.

We currently compete with California for having the highest gas prices in the nation. Health insurance and property taxes are through the roof. And the cost of food, driven by inflation, is putting a squeeze on people who simply can’t afford it.

This is punishing families, hurting small businesses, and forcing countless numbers of citizens to leave our state. All the people are asking for is just a little relief and reprieve.

Unfortunately, many in Olympia continue to push policies that punish people at the pump, crush consumers at the store, and burden families with bills they simply can’t pay. As Governor, we will work together to change all this and make our state an affordable place to work and live.

Creating jobs and growing the economy is a must for our State to thrive and prosper.

That requires policies that lower your taxes, reduce regulations, and that help small businesses grow and create good-paying jobs. That also requires something else: law and order.

The spike in crime, vandalism and homelessness have made it difficult – and in some cases nearly impossible – for businesses to survive much less succeed.

It doesn’t have to be this way. For generations, it wasn’t this way.

The bottom line is crystal clear: either elected officials are okay allowing this to happen or have chosen to look the other way.

I never will.

To preserve the hopes and dreams of our children we must first ensure their safety and educational opportunities.

Washington’s public schools have lost over 60,000 students since the COVID-19 pandemic, creating an epidemic of its own. We must do everything in our power to make sure we never revert to a one-size-fits-all round of lockdowns, closures, and mandates.

You can preserve public health without destroying freedom.

In terms of our schools, which are there to give our children the tools they need to succeed in life, we must reverse the exodus of children not returning.

Beyond giving teachers all the tools they need to effectively do their jobs, we must redouble our efforts to make every school in the state safe and secure.

As Governor, my efforts will be focused on restoring the voices of all loving and caring parents to ensure your children receive the high-quality education they deserve, and you expect.

Government is there to serve, and listen to, the people. Yet our state government today only seems interested in serving themselves and listening to no one but themselves. I’m running to make state government what it should be – open, responsive, and inclusive – where the power is wielded by you, the citizens.

Do this, and we will replace delay and foot-dragging with action and results. We must stop pitting one group against another, one region against another, one generation against another. It’s literally tearing our society apart.

The way I see it, leadership means you’re willing to make the tough decisions so many others shy away from. That listening to others isn’t just a sign of respect but a prescription for success.

That when you pledge to represent everyone, you really mean it.
